docs: Add documentation on how to build images (#2535)
thin-edge/thin-edge.io: docs/src/extend/firmware-management/building-image/rugpi/tutorial.md

The instructions on this page can be used to build images for the following devices:

* Raspberry Pi 1 (32 bit)
* Raspberry Pi 2 (64 bit)
* Raspberry Pi 3 (64 bit)
* Raspberry Pi 4 (64 bit)
* Raspberry Pi 5 (64 bit)
* Raspberry Pi Zero W (32 bit)
* Raspberry Pi Zero 2W (64 bit)

Please check out the [official Rugpi documentation](https://oss.silitics.com/rugpi/) for more details on how to use and customize it.

## Setting up your build system

Building images using Rugpi is considerably faster and easier when compared to The Yocto Project, so it makes it a great tool for beginners.

The following tools are required to build an image:

* Docker Engine

:::tip
Images can be built using Rugpi using a CI Workflow. An example for a Github Workflow is included in the template project.
:::

## Building your image

> The [tedge-rugpi-images](https://github.com/thin-edge/tedge-rugpi-image) is project which includes out of the box configuration to perform robust Over-the-Air Operating System updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [tedge-rugpi-images](https://github.com/thin-edge/tedge-rugpi-image) project includes out of the box configurations to perform robust Over-the-Air Operating System updates.
```

Author: Resolved by 911a51e709f446b2ac1cf7a87a0fcf98c6da6a2e

Feel free to clone the project if you want to make your own customizations, however please always refer back to the project if you run into any problems (as it may have changed in the meantime).

### Cloning the project

1. Clone the project and change directory to the locally checked out folder

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/thin-edge/tedge-rugpi-image.git
    cd tedge-rugpi-image
    ```

2. Install [just](https://just.systems/man/en/chapter_5.html) which is used to run different tasks provided by the project

    ```sh
    curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://just.systems/install.sh | sudo bash -s -- --to /usr/bin
    ```

    Check out the [justfile website](https://just.systems/man/en/chapter_5.html) for more installation options.

### Customizing your own image

1. Fork the project

> 2. Edit the authorized ssh keys for each profile

Reviewer: It might be good to stress that this step is critical to connect a device booting this image.

Author: Resolved by a929c2d124cab9c2800b80992e6011d35e25d563

    ```toml title="file: profiles/default.toml"
    #...

    [parameters.ssh]
    root_authorized_keys = """
    ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQDfhQGWWw73ponAokdNSRZ5cQc9/CIX1TLQgYlr+BtObKoO4UNFP1YSbgK03GjhjeUid+QPmV+UURqxQTqLQoYWqUFP2CYkILFccVPmTvx9HLwupI+6QQKWfMDx9Djfph9GzInymaA5fT7hKppqittFrC/l3lkKgKTX5ohEOGshIbRgtgOYIaW3ByTx3urnaBbYCIgOyOZzSIyS0dUkwsiLu3XjPspgmn3Fs/+vofT/yhBe1carW0UM3ivV0JFfJzrxbCl/F7I2qwfjZXsypjkwlpNupUMuo3xPMi8YvNvyEu4d+IEAqO1dCcdGcxlkiHxrdITIpVLt5mjJ2LauHE/H bootstrap
    """

    # ...
    ```

3. Commit the changes

4. You can now add any custom recipes to your project if you want to include additional packages in your image, or configure items.

    See the [Rugpi System Customization](https://oss.silitics.com/rugpi/docs/guide/system-customization) docs for details on how to do this or follow clues from some of the existing recipes included in the [tedge-rugpi-images](https://github.com/thin-edge/tedge-rugpi-image) project.

### Building an image

:::info
Currently building is only supported on a Linux environment. It is strongly encouraged to use the Github workflow to build the image.
:::

> 1. Build an image for your device (machine)

Reviewer: On my linux box, I have the same issue as for CI https://github.com/thin-edge/tedge-rugpi-image/blob/main/scripts/compress.sh#L6,

i.e. I need to run `xz` with `sudo` to avoid the error `xz: build/tedge_rugpi_default_pi4_20231220.1302.img.xz: Permission denied`

Adding this as a Tip could be useful.

Author: I'd rather just make the script a bit more intelligent and do the compression automatically...though I still don't fully understand where the exact error comes from, or if there is a more convenient way to solve it.

Author: In the meantime I've added a tip about running the same command using sudo if a "Permission denied" error is experienced. I'll still look for a better way to handle this.

Resolved by 51ec5440a4e622694b97e9c612bf6ae28ac740fd

    ```sh tab={"label":"Pi\tZero"}
    just IMAGE_ARCH=armhf PROFILE=armhf VARIANT=pi01 build-all
    ```

    ```sh tab={"label":"Pi\t1"}
    just IMAGE_ARCH=armhf PROFILE=armhf VARIANT=pi01 build-all
    ```    

    ```sh tab={"label":"Pi\t2"}
    just IMAGE_ARCH=arm64 PROFILE=default VARIANT=pi023 build-all
    ```
    ```sh tab={"label":"Pi\t3"}
    just IMAGE_ARCH=arm64 PROFILE=default VARIANT=pi023 build-all
    ```
    ```sh tab={"label":"Pi\tZero2W"}
    just IMAGE_ARCH=arm64 PROFILE=default VARIANT=pi023 build-all
    ```

    ```sh tab={"label":"Pi\t4\t(With\tFirmware)"}
    just IMAGE_ARCH=arm64 PROFILE=default VARIANT=pi4 build-all
    ```

    ```sh tab={"label":"Pi\t4\t(Without\tFirmware)"}
    just IMAGE_ARCH=arm64 PROFILE=default VARIANT=pi45 build-all
    ```

    ```sh tab={"label":"Pi\t5"}
    just IMAGE_ARCH=arm64 PROFILE=default VARIANT=pi45 build-all
    ```

2. Inspect the built image

    ```sh
    ls -ltr build/*.img
    ```

3. Flash the base image using the instructions on the [Flashing an image](../../flashing-an-image) page

> ## Tips

Reviewer: A tip that could be useful is how to choose the appropriate image.

I have a Pi400, do I have to pick a Pi4 with or without firmware? something else?

Author: Yeah the part about the with or without the firmware is unfortunately more complex then I'd hoped...but it is mostly due to the fact that the "tryboot" feature was only introduced after pi4 was released :/ So I definitely need to expand on that.

Author: I've added a note which references the tip section. c134c874fd473c49cbb565e2b85310b56ab9a09a

This section contains general tips which can be helpful whilst either getting things setup, or what to do when you encounter an error.

### Building on MacOS Apple Silicon

> Currently building an image is not supported on MacOS as it requires disks 

Reviewer: I don't understand what do you mean by *it requires disks*. You mean there is no `fallocate` command?

Author: To be honest I'm not 100% sure of the root cause of the error...but during the build process a ext4 and fat(32?) images (partitions/disks?) need to be created as these then flashed onto the sd card...on MacOS I don't think there is ext4 support out of the box, or alternatively there is some incompatibility introduced when mounting the hosts directory as a docker volume...

I some how have it working on my personal laptop, so I must of installed something (my guess was MacFuse), however I tried to install that on the work laptop but it did not have any effect (though that might also be due to security restrictions on the work laptop)...

In the end building in the github workflow is much more reliable...
